# S3 - Simple Storage Solution

## Summary

Simple Storage Solution (S3) is the AWS infinitely scaling storage offering.

S3 allows people to store objects (files) in buckets (directories).

Buckets have:

- A globally unique name
- Definition at the region level
- The following naming convention:
  - No uppercase
  - No underscore
  - 3-63 characters long
  - Not an IP address
  - Must start with a lowercase letter or number

Objects (files) have a key. The key is the full path:

- `s3://my-bucket/my_file.txt`
- `s3://my-bucket/my_folder/another_folder/my_file.txt`

There's no concept of directories in buckets, althought the URL and UI will trick you into believing otherwise. There are just very long keys that contain slashes.

Object values are the content of the body.

- Max object size is 5TB
- If uploading more than 5GB, must use the multi part upload.

Metadata (list of text key / value pairs - system or user metadata)

Tags (unicode key / value pair - up to 10) - useful for security / lifecycle

Version ID (if Versioning is enabled)

### Summary - Versioning

You can version your files in Amazon S3.

It is enabled at the bucket level.

Same key over write will increment the version.

It is best practice to version your buckets.

- Protects against unintended deletes (ability to restore a version)
- Easy roll back to a previous version

Notes:

- Any file that is not versioned prior to versioning being enabled will have a version "null"
- Suspending versioning does not delete the previous versions

### Summary - S3 Websites

S3 can host static websites and have them accessible on the public internet.

If you get a 403 Forbidden error, make sure the bucket policy allows public reads.

The website url will be:

- `<bucket_name>.s3-website.<aws_region>.amazonaws.com`
- `<bucket_name>.s3-website-<aws_region>.amazonaws.com`

### Summary - CORS

An origin is a scheme (protocol), host (domain) and port

CORS means Cross Origin Resource Sharing

Web browser based mechanism to allow requests to other origins while visiting the main origin

Same origin:

- `http://example.com/app1`
- `http://example.com/app2`

Different origin:

- `http://app1.example.com`
- `http://app2.example.com`

The requests with different origins won't be fulfilled unless the other origin allows for the request using CORS headers.

If a client does a cross-origin request on our S3 bucket, we need to enable the correct CORS headers.

You can allow for a specific origin or for all origins (*)

### Summary - Consistency Model

Read after write consistency for PUTs of new objects

- As soon as an object is written, we can retrieve it
- This is true unless we did a GET before the PUT. This is eventually consistent

Eventual consistency for DELETES and PUTS of existing objects

- If we read an object after updating, we might get the older version
- If we delete an object, we might be able to retrieve it for some time

### Summary - MFA Delete

MFA forces users to generate a code on a device (usually a mobile phone or hardware) before doing important operations on S3

You will need MFA to:

- Permanently delete an object version
- Suspend versioning on the bucket

You wont need MFA to:

- Enable versioning
- Listing deleted verions

### Summary - S3 Access Logs

For audit purposes, you may want to log all access to S3 buckets

Any request made to S3, from any account, authorized or denied, will be logged into another S3 bucket.

Do not set your loggin bucket to be the same bucket - this will create a logging loop and cause your bucket to grow exponentially in size.

### Summary - S3 Replication

Must enable versioning in source and destination.

- Cross Region Replication (CRR)
- Same Region Replication (SRR)

Buckets can be in different accounts.

Copying is asynchronous.

Must give proper IAM permission to S3

CRR Use Cases:

- Compliance
- Lower Latency
- Replication Across Accounts

SRR Use Cases:

- Log Aggregation
- Live Replication between prod and test accounts

After activating, only new objects are replicated - this is not retroactive.

For DELETE operations:

- If you delete without a version ID, it adds a delete marker - not replicated
- If you delete with a version ID, it deletes in the source - not replicated

There is no chaining of replication

- There is no transitive replication
- If B1 has replication in B2 and B2 has replication into B3
- If an object is created in B1, it is replicated into B2, but not chained into B3

### Summary - Pre Signed URLs

Can generate pre signed URLs using the SDK or CLI.

- For downloads (easy, use the CLI)
- For uploads (harder, use the SDK)

Valid for a default of 3600 seconds - can change the amount of time with the `--expires-in TIME_IN_SECONDS` argument

Users given a presigned URL can GET / PUT inherit the same permissions of the persion who generated the URL

## Security

S3 supports VPC endpoint (for instances in VPC without access to public internet)

S3 access logs can be stored in another S3 bucket.

API calls can be logged using CloudTrail

MFA Delete: MFA can be required in versioned buckets to delete objects

Pre Signed URLS can be provied that are only valid for a limited time.

### Security - Encryption

There are 4 methods of encryption for objects in S3.

- SSE-S3: encrypts S3 onjects using keys handled and managed by AWS
- SSE-KMS: leverage AWS Key Management Serive to manage encryption keys
- SSE-C: When you want to manage your own encryption
- Client Side Encryptio

#### Security - Encryption - SSE-S3

SSE-S3 encryption using keys handled and managed by Amazon S3.

The object is encrypted server side.

AES-256 encryption type.

Must set header `"x-amz-server-side-encryption" : "AES256"`

#### Security - Encryption - SSE-KMS

SSE-KMS encryption using keys handled and managed by KS.

KMS advantages: user control + audit trail

Object is encrypted server side.

Must set header `"x-amz-server-side-encryption" : "aws:kms"`

#### Security - Encryption - SSE-C

SSE-C server side encryption using data keys fully managed by the customer outside of AWS

Amazon S3 does not store the encryption key you provide.

HTTPS must be used.

Encryption key must be provided in HTTP headers for each HTTP request made.

#### Security - Encryption - Client Side Encryption

Client library sich as the Amazon S3 Encryption Client.

Clients must encrypt data themselves before sening to S3

Clients must decrypt data themselves when retrieving from S3

Customer fully manages the keys and encryption cycle.

### Security - Encryption in Transit (SSL / TLS)

Amazon S3 exposes:

- HTTP endpoint: non-encrypted
- HTTPS endpoint: encyption in flight

You're free to use whichever endpoint you want, but HTTPS is recommended

Most clients will use HTTPS by default

HTTPS is mandatory for SSE-C

Encryption in flight is also called SSL / TLS.

### Security - User Based

User based security defines which API calls should be allowed for a specific IAM user.

### Security - Resource Based

Bucket policies - bucket wide rules from the S3 console - allows for cross account

Object ACL - finer grain

Bucket ACL - coarser grain

Note: an IAM principal can access an S# object if:

- The IAM permissions allow it

OR

- The resource policy allows it

AND

- There's no explicit deny

### Security - S3 Bucket Policies

S3 bucket policies are JSOn based policies.

- Resources: buckets and objects
- Actions: Set of API requests to Allow or Deny
- Effect: Allow orr Deny
- Principal: The account or user to apply the policy to

Use S3 bucket for policy to:

- Grant public access to a bucket
- Force objects to be encrypted at upload
- Grant access to another account (Cross Account)

### Security - Block Public Access

Block public access to buckets and objects granted through:

- New ACLs
- Any ACLs
- New public bucket or access point policies

Block public and cross-account access to buckets and objects through any public bucket or access point policy.

These settings were created to prevent company data leaks

If you know your bucket is public, leave these on

Can be set at the account level.

## Use Case

## Cost
